Mile 14.3 — Division 4 — Elev. 1854 ft

The Little Rock Pond Tenting Area was the 2nd at this location.

This shelter was a framed lean-to with room for 8 and was built by the USFS in 1962. Due to heavy usage and a fragile lake shore environment, it was moved 0.3 mile south on the LT in 1972, reconstructed and renamed Lula Tye Shelter. The East Shore Shelter was used for 10 years. It was located near the present Little Rock Pond Tenting Area and the Caretaker site.

This shelter was without graffiti in 1963 when Joanne & I passed by in 1963 on our End-to-End journey. [Paul Woodward]

A Long Trail Recipe. Take two shelters in the wrong places and add the concern of the USFS and the GMC about increasingly unsatisfactory condition in the area. Combine fifteen volunteer high school students and five leaders. Season liberally with the experience and know-how of one Sandy Stare, master shelter builder and prefabricator. Blend together smoothly, and add copious amounts of energy, enthusiasm, and good supervision. Allow to boil and bubble vigorously for nine days or so and then witness the happier sight of two shelters in better locations. This is what was cooking at Little Rock Pond in late July and early August 1972.

For some time, it had been apparent that removal of the two shelters to more suitable sites was a necessary first step in restoring the rapidly deteriorating condition at the Pond. The Forest Service was willing to sponsor the project and was anxious to get the job done. The GMC concurred with the need and had the man who could provide the technical supervision. Manpower and leadership were available from the Student Conservation Association, a nonprofit organization devoted to providing outdoor living experiences and public service conservation projects for high school students.

Under the leadership of Rick and Nancy Meyer and their assistants, SCA members first turned their attention to the island shelter. Under Sandy's watchful eyes, they cut the shelter into several sections and floated it across the pond to the outlet area. Then they carefully transported the sections down the trail to the new site some distance north of the pond. Next came the job of reassembling the pieces into the original combination. So, well was the entire job done that not one board was cracked during the process, and only a very careful study of the shelter can detect the fact that it had been dissected and put back together again.

Much the same procedure was followed with Lula Tye Shelter. This time, though, the section could not be conveniently floated and each one had to be laboriously transported to the new site some distance south of the pond. All was completed when each shelter had toilets in their proper locations, and the old bridge to the island yielded grudgingly to determined efforts to remove it. Harry Peet used parts of that bridge to improve the trail along the east side of the pond. The old sites were thoroughly cleaned up and the new sites were carefully prepared for the use which they would soon receive. [LTN Nov. 1972]
