Mile 6.1 — Division 12

Thanks to the heroic efforts of the Vermont Youth Conservation Corps, GMC volunteers and staff, Hazen's Notch Camp has a new home. This summer this historic camp was moved from its site 0.5 miles north of Route 58 to the saddle between Sugarloaf Mt and Bruce Peak. It now sits 1.6 miles north of the notch. The former site on Wade Brook was beautiful: however, several conditions made it unsuitable for use in today's world. Outhouse locations were unsuitable due to seepage into the brook. Vandalism and trash also made this location near the highway undesirable. It was a party location.

The GMC decided to move the shelter rather than build a new one to pre9erve a shelter built by the LT Patrol of the 1930's & 40's; the camp at Hazen's Notch was by far the best candidate. A GMC field team inventoried and evaluated every piece of wood and determined that the bulk of the building was in excellent shape and the lumber could be reused. The project was the perfect job for a VYCC wilderness crew, a group of Vermont youth 16 to 19 years of age who spend a month in the woods gaining a sense of satisfaction from their labors. Although the 50-year-old nails in hand-oiled wood and many apertures on the walls made reusing the materials seem impossible. Jeff Bostwick, a GMC volunteer who reconstructs post-and-beam barns for a living, said the project would be easy. The job required careful attention to detail. First the building had to be taken apart without damaging the wood. The team measured, evaluated, and numbered each piece of lumber. Then the VYCC piled the lumber into piles by floor, roof, and walls. The VYCC, GMC field staff, Saint Michael's College outdoor volunteers, Lamoille County Summer Activity Program, Don Hill, Becca Myette, Al Fiebig, Pete Ketcham, and other volunteers helped with the transportation of materials over the mountain to the new site.

Most of the building was put together with original materials. Only the sills and the flooring are made from new lumber and a metal roof was installed instead of a tar roof. A new outhouse was constructed. It is the first 'moldering' outhouse on the LT using red worms to process the waste under the seat. The project took: 2,300 volunteer and staff work: hours to complete. The work: was accomplished despite the major flood of '97.

This project was the first time an antiquated cabin had been moved to a different location on the LT. By going the extra mile to preserve Hazen's Notch Camp, we have saved an integral part of the LT system. [Tim Teirney, LTN Winter 1997]
