Mile 2.6 — Division 5 — Elev. 1530 ft

Sunnyside Shelter was 1st.

Located 200 ft from the LT. on a grassy wood road, it is a framed structure with bunk space for 8 and was constructed in 1969 by Louis Stare and members of the Killington Section. It is named for Minerva Hinchey in tribute to her 22 years of service as GMC corresponding secretary, 1955 - 1977. Water can be found at a small spring 150 ft south. This shelter replaced the former Sunnyside Camp which burned down in 1968. It has been in use from 1969 to present. [GB 24th Edition 1996] It was named Sunnyside Camp in the GB 20th Edition 1971. The Killington Section has renamed Sunnyside Camp as Minerva Hinchey Shelter. [LTN Feb. 1980]

On Sunday, June 1, 1969, Shirley Strong who is the President of the GMC christened the new Sunnyside Camp. Sandy Stare who built Lost Pond Shelter has now moved to Vermont and has now built this camp. The big work party assembled on May 17 at the site. The lumber was due to arrive at any moment. The site was cleared, lunches were devoured, and we waited. And waited. But no lumber. One by one, late in the day, the dejected volunteers retreated. Imagine Churchill's chagrin when he returned home and found the lumber in his yard! During the week the misdirected lumber reached its proper destination, volunteers hauled it into the site with Doc's jeep, and work began. The flooring and framework had been completed by Friday. Most of the work was completed the next weekend. On Sunday the 1st of June at 1 pm the ceremony began. Ben Rolston gave a brief history of the old Camp and told of Sandy's shelter building experiences. Wes Weston, President of the Killington Section, extended greetings to all. Shirley Strong, President of the GMC, christened the new Camp. [LT News, August 1969]
