LT Mile 51.6 — Division 3 — Elev. 2170 ft

This camp is on the LT quite near where the old Swezey was burned. It is on the top of the steep bank of Day Brook which here flows through a picturesque gorge. The camp was built of lumber tom from old lumber camp buildings, donated by Mr. Swezey of Manchester. It steeps eight people or twelve with a little crowding. The camp has built-in seats and table and is equipped with a large cook stove. [LT News, Dec. 1935] SWEZEY CAMP - At the April Trustee's meeting, it was reported that this camp was in an advanced state of decomposition and would have to be rebuilt this season. [LT News. May 1946] A closed frame camp, in rather poor condition; stove. bunks fore to 12. [GB 14th Edition 1951] Now has bunk space for 4 persons. [1955 Supplement to GB 14th Edition 1951] This frame camp, built by the LT Patrol in 1935, is maintained as an auxiliary to Swezey Shelter. It has bunks for 4 and water is at the adjacent brook. [GB 20th Edition 1971] Torn down by the USFS. [LT News August 1977]

Windham County Section News - May 1, 1949: work party into Swezey. Jerry Stone and Dave Dunklee drove into Camp in Jerry's Dodge Power wagon up the boulder strewn Rootville Road from Manchester. They did some work on the trail, put up 3 signs, cleaned out the cabin, threw out the broken stove, put screening in the windows, left saw, axe, and broom. and repaired the roof. But their services were more urgently needed to rescue fishermen who had gotten mired in the mud with their Jeep and another fisherman who used his tractor to get to his favorite fishing place and

had a sharp branch puncture a hole in his big tractor tire. The Power wagon returned to Manchester in the late afternoon with a tractor riding on the truck and a Jeep being towed in the rear having a broken fuel pump. [LT News, May 1950] Bunks need to be finished. fireplace and other finishing touches need to be done. but hikers can stiff find shelter. Hope to be finished in early 1957. [LT News, August 1956]

The problem of repairing or rebuilding the camp has preoccupied the Brattleboro Section this year. Finally, it was decided to repair the camp. One weekend in the fall. two jeeps carrying 2 Douglases, 2 Davises, Bill Hawkins, and Richard Crosby plus roofing material and equipment went into Old Swezey Camp. The group tore off the old roof on the camp and replaced it with plywood and new paper shingles. They tarred the seams and put metal strip edging on the edges of the roof. The inside was spruced up with new plastic material in the window frames and a new piece of stove pipe on the stove. A good supply of firewood was worked up too and left for the next hiker or hunter who needs a warm shelter. Most of the group stayed overnight at the nearby Shelter where they heard bears hooting in the vicinity during the night. [LT News. Feb. 1969]
