Mile 1.8 — Division 6 — Elev. 2250 ft

A short distance north of Willard Gap, this framed shelter with bunks for 8 was built in 1969 by the LT Patrol, Louis Stare, and members of the Killington Section. It is named for Fred H. Tucker of Boston. a long-time member of the GMC, and for Otto Johnson of Proctor, Vt., who bequeathed funds for its construction. The nearby Eagle Square Brook provides water. It has been in use from 1969 to present. [GB 24th Edition 1996]

On Sunday. October 5, 1969, 17 GMCer's and guests hiked into the Shelter for the dedication ceremony. The shelter is sturdily made with a wide overhang for protection in bad weather. Double bunks on each side with a table in the middle. It has all the modem conveniences including a picture window in the little house out back. and an electrical outlet for those who bring along electric shavers or toaster ... and their own current! After a short delay waiting for dignitaries, the ceremony started. All the goodies were devoured while the crowd enjoyed the speeches. Dave Rice, a member of the patrol which built the shelter, described its construction. Rod Rice, chairman of Trails and Shelters. gave a brief history of Old Tucker and explained the new name was in memory of Otto Johnson of Proctor who gave $1000. for its construction. President Shirley Strong unveiled the sign made by Vice-President Granget Kammerer. This was promptly recorded by a dozen photographers. and the new shelter was. officially dedicated. [by Betty Weeks] The LT Patrol used Tucker Lodge while they built this new lodge which took 3 weeks to complete under the able direction of Sandy Stare. [LT News. November 1969]
