LT Mile 170.4 — Division 9 — Elev. 700 ft

Renamed Buchanan Lodge in 1964

A closed log siding cabin with shingle roof, stove, and bunks for 12. [GB 14th Edition 1951] The construction of this lodge in 1949 by LT Patrol was made possible by a generous gift from William O. Wiley of the New York Section who has also contributed to a fund for its perpetual maintenance. Especially well built, using log siding, it is one of the LT best structures. There are bunks for about 12. Adjacent Gleason Brook furnishes water for drinking and swimming. [GB 50th Anniversary Edition 1960 (16th)] Visitors report that this 12' x 18' structure is in a beauty spot It stands on the edge of a deep ravine, and a pool at the foot of the cascade is about fifteen feet long and deep enough for swimming. [LT News, August 1949.) The floor was replaced, new stove pipe was installed, and new glass was put in. [LT News, May 1962] The cost was $600. William Wiley gave $2500. the balance of $1900. is drawing interest in a Wiley Lodge Fund which provides for all maintenance and rebuilding whenever the original wears out. [LT News, Nov. 1964] On Dec. 12, 1969, 24 members of the Burlington section snowshoed to the Lodge to celebrate Roy's 89th birthday. Knowing his affinity for porcupines, it was natural that the theme of the occasion should revolve around these prickly creatures. Cupcakes were covered with "quills" (toothpicks), and each had a bite out of it. A congratulatory birch-bark scroll presented to Roy was signed by all present. One person even formed a signature out of porky footprints. [LTN Feb. 1970] Destroyed by fire on April 17, 1976. [LTN August 1978]
